# Predicting electricity demand for the PG&E territory through multiple linear regression
Developing accurate short-term electricity demand forecasts is critical to power planning and ensuring adequate power supply, and is the subject of ongoing research. This project investigates whether electricity demand in Northern California can be accurately predicted through a multiple linear regression model, using historical electricity demand data, temperature, and temporal characteristics (i.e., day of week) as inputs to forecast electricity demand. In order to account for real-world data constraints facing electric utilities, the project also evaluates changes in model error when the most recent demand data available are from the previous week. The project uses electricity demand data for the Pacific Gas & Electric (PG&E) territory and temperature data retrieved from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) Global Historical Climatology Network (GHCN) weather stations. The project applies the Scikit-learn Python library and its linear model module to fit five multiple linear regression models. When evaluated on the testing dataset, the models produced an RMSE of 264 MWh – 798 MWh (2.2% – 6.9%), and multiple R-squared values of 0.92 – 0.98. The model that included all three feature categories (demand, temperature, and temporal) and included demand features from the previous hour and previous day performed best.

The file writeup.pdf contains additional information on the model. 
